.Dd $Mdocdate$
.Dt DRBD-REACTOR 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm drbd-reactor
.Nd monitors DRBD resources via plugins
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Fl c Ar config
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
is a daemon with multiple plugins that have different purposes. Section
.Sx PLUGINS
provides a brief overview about the available plugins. A detailed description,
configuration options, and examples are provided per plugin, please refer to
the
.Sx SEE ALSO
section.
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl c Ar config
Path to the config file. By default
.Pa /etc/drbd-reactor.toml
.El
.Sh PLUGINS
.Ss promoter
The promoter plugin monitors events on resources an executes systemd units.
This plugin can be used for simple high-availability. See
.Xr drbd-reactor.promoter 5
.Ss umh
The user mode helper is a plugin that allows users to specify filters matched
on DRBD state changes (e.g., from
.Sy Secondary
to
.Sy Primary
). If a filter rule matches, a user defined script gets
executed and various useful environment variables get set. See
.Xr drbd-reactor.umh 5
.Ss prometheus
This plugin serves a
.Lk https://prometheus.io "prometheus"
compatible endpoint for DRBD resources exposing various DRBD metrics. See
.Xr drbd-reactor.prometheus 5
.Ss debugger
This is a simple plugin that prints change events to stderr. This is mainly
useful as a simple showcase for users or plugin writers. It also helps
developers to detect bugs in drbd-reactor's core.
.Em Important:
Messages are printed on debug level, so make sure to set an apropriate log
level. See
.Xr drbd-reactor.debugger 5
.Sh FILES
.Bl -tag -compact
.It Pa /etc/drbd-reactor.toml
Default configuration file.
.El
.Sh EXIT STATUS
.Ex -std
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr drbd-reactor.toml 5
.Xr drbd-reactor.promoter 5
.Xr drbd-reactor.umh 5
.Xr drbd-reactor.prometheus 5
.Xr drbd-reactor.debugger 5
.Sh AUTHORS
The
.Nm
program was written by the following authors:
.An -split
.An Roland Kammerer Aq Mt rck@linbit.com
.An Moritz Wanzenböck Aq Mt moritz.wanzenboeck@linbit.com
