.Dd $Mdocdate$
.Dt DRBDD.PROMOTER 5
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm drbdd.promoter
.Nd drbdd promoter plugin
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
is the promoter plugin for
.Xr drbdd 1 .
.Pp
The promoter plugin monitors events on resources an executes systemd units.
This plugin can be used for simple high-availability.
.Pp
If a resource changes its state to
.Dq may promote ,
the plugin (i.e., all plugins on all nodes in the cluster) start the defined
.Xr systemd.unit 5 .
If this is a mount unit, and DRBD
.Sy auto-promote
is enabled (the default), one of the plugins will succeed and promote the DRBD
resource to DRBD Primary. All the others will fail.
.Pp
If a resource looses DRBD quorum, it stops all the systemd units in reverse
order.
.Pp
The plugin's configuration can contain an action that is executed if a stop
action fails (e.g., triggering a reboot). Start/stop actions are interpreted
as systemd units and handled as such. Other service mangers/scripts are
supported by starting the action with an absolute path.
.Pp
In order for DRBD to use quorum as needed by this plugin, make sure the
resource file of the DRBD resource contains the following option (this is the
default for LINSTOR, but your resources needs to qualify for quorum).
.Bd -literal -offset indent
options {
   quorum majority;
   on-no-quorum io-error;
}
.Ed
.Sh EXAMPLES
This configures a promoter for resource
.Dq foo .
If the resource might be promoted the
.Dq foo.mount
and
.Dq foo.service
units get started. On stop failes a sysrq gets triggered.
.Bd -literal -offset indent
[promoter.resources.foo]
start = ["foo.mount", "foo.service"]
## if unset/empty, services from 'start' will be stopped in reverse order
# stop = []
on-stop-failure =  "echo b > /proc/sysrq-trigger"
.Ed
.Sh AUTHORS
.An -nosplit
The
.Xr drbdd 1
program was written by the following authors:
.An -split
.An Roland Kammerer Aq Mt rck@linbit.com
.An Moritz Wanzenböck Aq Mt moritz.wanzenboeck@linbit.com
