.Dd $Mdocdate$
.Dt DRBD-REACTOR.TOML 5
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm drbd-reactor.toml
.Nd DRBD-REACTOR daemon configuration file
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
is the configuration file for the DRBD-REACTOR daemon,
.Xr drbd-reactor 1 .
The file has to be valid
.Lk https://toml.io "toml"
file.
.Pp
The configuration file consists of sections for global settings, logging, and
the actual plugin configuration. While this is rarely used and should be used
with caution, it is possible to have multiple instances of a plugin as well as
multiple loggers. The program ships with a commented version of the
configuration file, please refer to that for further details.
.Pp
Every plugin can specify an
.Sy id
in its configuration section. On a daemon reload started plugins that are
still present in the new configuration keep running. Plugins without an ID
get stopped and restarted if still present in the new configuration. So for
plugins without an
.Sy id
every
.Em reload
is a
.Em restart .
.Sh EXAMPLES
.Bd -literal -offset indent
snippets = "/etc/drbd-reactor.d"
# update statistics every 45 seconds
statistics-poll-interval = 45

[[log]]
level = "debug"

# Configure a promoter
[[promoter]]
[promoter.resources.foo]
start = ["foo.mount", "foo.service"]
on-stop-failure =  "echo b > /proc/sysrq-trigger"

# Configure a user mode helper filter
[[umh]]
[[umh.resource]]
command = "drbd-reactor-role-change.sh"
event-type = "Change"
old.role = { operator = "NotEquals", value = "Primary" }
new.role = "Primary"

# Configure a prometheus exporter
[[prometheus]]
enums = true
id = "prometheus"
.Ed
.Sh AUTHORS
.An -nosplit
The
.Xr drbd-reactor 1
program was written by the following authors:
.An -split
.An Roland Kammerer Aq Mt rck@linbit.com
.An Moritz Wanzenböck Aq Mt moritz.wanzenboeck@linbit.com
.Sh CAVEATS
Please note that the path specified in
.Sy snippets
gets path-joined with
.Dq *.toml
and the result is then subject to glob expansion.
