.Dd $Mdocdate$
.Dt DRBD-REACTORCTL 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm drbd-reactorctl
.Nd Control the drbd-reactor daemon and its plugins
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Fl -config Ar CONFIG
.Ar subcommand
.Nm edit
.Op Fl -disabled
.Op Fl -force
.Op Fl -type Ar TYPE
.Ar file
.Nm enable
.Op Ar
.Nm disable
.Op Fl -now
.Op Ar
.Nm status
.Op Fl -resource
.Op Fl -verbose
.Op Ar
.Nm evict
.Op Fl -delay
.Op Fl -force
.Op Fl -keep-masked
.Op Fl -unmask
.Op Ar
.Nm cat
.Op Ar
.Nm restart
.Op Fl -with-targets
.Op Ar
.Nm rm
.Op Fl -force
.Op Fl -disabled
.Op Ar
.Nm ls
.Op Fl -disabled
.Op Ar
.Nm start-until
.Ar until
.Ar file
.Nm generate-completion
.Ar SHELL
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
utility is used to control the local
.Xr drbd-reactor 1
daemon or a cluster of daemons (see
.Sx CLUSTER
for details).
.Pp
It is important to note that this utility only operates on plugin snippets
(configured via
.Sy snippets
in the main configuration file). Existing plugin configurations in the main
configuration file should be moved to snippets by the user.
.Pp
The
.Ar file
arguments shown in
.Sx SYNOPSIS
can be specified as absolute path, or as the basename. The suffixes
.Qq .disabled
and
.Qq .toml
are optional. These get stripped and readded by the utility accordingly, see
.Sx EXAMPLES
for details.
.Pp
Global arguments are:
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl c, -config Ar CONFIG
Main configuration file, defaults to
.Pa /etc/drbd-reactor.toml
.It Fl -context Ar CONTEXT
Select a cluster context. Commands are then usually executed on all nodes in
the given context. Subcommands might implement a behavior that is different
from simple parallel execution (check the subsections of the subcommands for
more details). The contexts
.Sy none
and
.Sy local
are reserved and can be used to temporarily disable the default context.
.It Fl -nodes Ar NODES
Only use the selected nodes from the given cluster context. Nodes are
separated by commas.
.El
.Pp
The subcommands and their arguments are as follows:
.Ss edit
edit an existing plugin configuration or create a new one from a template.
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl -disabled
Edit a disabled file
.It Fl f, -force
Override sanity checks (e.g., topmost unit not a mount unit).
.It Fl t, -type Ar promoter | prometheus | debugger | umh
Type of the plugin to create from template. The default is
.Sy promoter .
.El
.Pp
Currently this command is not context/cluster aware, so
.Fl -context
and
.Fl -nodes
are ignored.
.Ss enable
enable a currently disabled plugin.
.Ss disable
disable a currently enabled plugin.
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl -now
In case of a promoter plugin also disable the target unit.
You might want to use
.Sy evict
instead.
.El
.Ss status
print the status of a plugin.
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl r, -resource Ar resource...
In case of a promoter plugin limit to these DRBD resources.
.It Fl -verbose
verbose output depending on the plugin type.
.El
.Ss evict
Evicts a promoter resource from the currently active node.
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl d, -delay
Positive number of seconds to wait for peer takeover.
.It Fl f, -force
Override sanity checks (multiple plugins per snippet/multiple resources per promoter).
.It Fl k, -keep-masked
Usually
.Sy evict
tries to evict the resource from the node but does not take further actions to
avoid that the resource becomes active on that node again (e.g., fail-back).
With this option the target unit is temporarily masked via
.Sy systemd
This makes it impossible to start the unit on the local node, which might be
beneficial for maintenance. Masking is cleared after reboot, or after
.Sy evict --unmask .
.It Fl u, -unmask
Unmasks all target units and tries to start them. It does not run any
evictions on its own, it is used to clear previous
.Sy evict --keep-masked
operations.
.El
.Pp
Currently this command is not context/cluster aware, so
.Fl -context
and
.Fl -nodes
are ignored.
.Ss cat
cat the toml configuration of a plugin. Tries to use a pretty printer (e.g.,
.Sy bat )
if available.
.Ss restart
restarts the given plugins or the daemon itself if no
.Ar files
are given.
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl -with-targets
also stop the drbd-service@.target for promoter plugins,
might get started on different node.
.El
.Ss rm
removes the given plugins and reloads the daemon.
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl f, -force
Do not ask for confirmation
.It Fl -disabled
Remove a disabled plugin.
.El
.Ss ls
lists activated plugins.
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl -disabled
Also list disabled plugins.
.El
.Ss start-until
starts a promoter generated target unit until (including) the given entry name
in the start list or a given index. Using an index number is especially
useful if one wants to stop at a OCF unit. An example use for a
highly-available LINSTOR controller might look like this:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
# drbd-reactorctl cat linstor_db | grep ^start
Displaying /etc/drbd-reactor.d/linstor_db.toml...
start = ["var-lib-linstor.mount", "linstor-controller.service"]
# drbd-reactorclt disable --now linstor_db # on all nodes
.Ed
After the service is disabled on all nodes one can now start parts of the
target on one node. In our example let's assume the admin wants to manually
alter the database of the LINSTOR controller. For that she wants the DRBD
device to be promoted and mounted, but the LINSTOR controller itself should be
kept stopped.
.Bd -literal -offset indent
# drbd-reactorclt start-until var-lib-linstor.mount linstor_db
INFO: To resume normal operation, execute:
- systemctl stop drbd-services@linstor_db.target # on this node
- drbd-reactorctl enable /etc/drbd-reactor.d/linstor_db.toml.disabled # on all cluster nodes
.Ed
The command show will generate all the usual overrides and then start the
implicit service responsible for DRBD device promotion and all the services
(with their overrides) in the start list until and including the one given on
the command line. After you are done, follow the instructions that
.Sy start-until
printed on the standard output.
.Ss generate-completion
Generate tab completion script for
.Ar SHELL
and write it to
.Sy stdout .
Supported shells are
.Ar zsh | bash | fish | powershell | elvish
.Sh CLUSTER
.Pp
Users can define cluster contexts via toml files in the locations specified in
the
.Sx FILES
section. Such toml files consist of
.Sy nodes
entries that themselves have fields for
.Sy hostname
and
.Sy user .
Usually one does not need to set the specific fields as they have sane
defaults: The name of the node entry is used as
.Sy hostname
if not otherwise specified, and
.Sy root
is the default
.Sy user .
If a cluster context is given or
.Pa default.toml
exists commands are executed on all nodes defined for that context. Execution
is carried out in parallel via ssh.
.Pp
A simple configuration can look like this:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
cat ~/.config/drbd-reactorctl/production.toml
[nodes."alpha.mynet"]
[nodes."beta.mynet"]
[nodes."gamma.mynet"]
.Ed
.Pp
Node names should follow the output of
.Sy uname -n
and also please make sure to quote node names containing dots.
.Pp
It is also possible to define a command that is executed to generate the nodes
list via
.Sy nodes-script .
These commands, usually simple shell scripts, are expected to be stored in the
same directory as the toml files. The scripts are expected to generate a valid
nodes list as documented above on stdout. Such a configuration would then look
like this:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
cat ~/.config/drbd-reactorctl/linstor.toml
nodes-script="linstor.sh"
.Ed
.Sh FILES
.Bl -tag -compact
.It Pa $XDG_CONFIG_HOME/drbd-reactorctl/
Default directory for context files in toml format.
.It Pa $XDG_CONFIG_HOME/drbd-reactorctl/default.toml
If this file exists (usually a symlink to another toml file), it will be used
by default.
.El
If
.Sy $XDG_CONFIG_HOME
is not set or empty, config files get looked up in
.Pa $HOME/.config/drbd-reactorctl/
.Sh EXAMPLES
.Bd -literal -offset indent
drbd-reactorctl edit -t prometheus myprometheus
drbd-reactorctl restart myprometheus.toml
drbd-reactorctl restart myprometheus
drbd-reactorctl status /etc/drbd-reactor.d/myprometheus.toml
drbd-reactorctl disable --now mylinstorpromoter
drbd-reactorctl evict --keep-masked
drbd-reactorctl evict --unmask mylinstorpromoter
drbd-reactorctl --context production --nodes alpha,gamma status --verbose
.Ed
.Sh AUTHORS
.An -nosplit
The
.Xr drbd-reactorctl 1
program was written by the following authors:
.An -split
.An Roland Kammerer Aq Mt rck@linbit.com
